Thus far, we already learned a lot about the built-in pipes or on pipes in general. You learned how to use them,
where to find out more about them, how to pass parameters or possibly multiple parameters and also how
to chain pipes.
This is great but sometimes, you need some functionality which just isn't built-in,
in this case you need to create your own pipe
and thankfully, this is super simple.
Now creating our own pipe is as simple as creating a new file in your app folder and then giving it
a descriptive name,
for example here I want to create a pipe which shortens my words, the input because let's say I want
to shorten this name of my server,
so the testing environment server somehow gets cut off.
Now for this, I will create a ShortenPipe, so I will name the file shorten.pipe.ts, to keep
this naming convention of being descriptive about what's in a file.
Now this newly created TypeScript file should simply hold a class which I export of course which
I'll name ShortenPipe. Now this ShortenPipe, this class needs to have one special method to be usable
as a pipe and whilst not strictly necessary,
it's a good practice to implement a certain interface which requires you to implement the method,
the interface is called PipeTransform and you need to import it from @angular/core.
So make sure to add this import at the top, PipeTransform from @angular/core
and with that implemented, you see that I now get an error in my IDE,
you would also get an error if you now try to compile this
because what we need to do here is we need to apply or we need to provide the transform method.
Now adding the transform method like this still is not 100% correct,
transform needs to receive the value which should get transformed.
So we need to get the value here which is of type any
and then we would receive a list of arguments.
Now for now our pipe here doesn't take any arguments, so I will omit any other arguments here in the
transform method,
so we only received the value.
Now to shorten this value, a quick and easy way to do this would be to return
and this is important,
transform always needs to return something because a pipe is just you put something in,
you get something out,
so you need to get something out otherwise it won't work.
So here, we want to return a new string and this new string should be the old
value but somehow shortened and we could simply use the substring method, substr,
this is a built-in method Javascript offers, where you can define how long this string, the substring we
want to extract should be.
So you want to start at index 0, at the start of the value and then let's say we want to have it 10 characters
long,
this would only give us back the first 10 characters.
Again we can see this if we save it like this, returning the substring of values so that we only get
the first 10 characters.
Now to use this pipe,
we need to go to app module and add it to declarations here, the ShortenPipe.
So just like components and directives, you also need to add pipes to declarations.
Make sure to also add the import pointing to the shorten.pipe.ts TS file, of course as always without
the .ts at the end here.
Now with this added, we make this pipe available and then we can go to our app component and use it
let's say but how would we use it?
Well we have to go back to the ShortenPipe first,
this class is implementing the interface we need to implement but it lacks one important thing, we need
to add a special decorator, the @Pipe decorator which is also imported from @angular/core. In the @Pipe
decorator,
you can specify the name for the pipe by simply adding name and then for example, shorten. Now by setting
it up like this,
you can now go to your template and on the server instance type, which is, excuse me on the server name,
here, we simply add a pipe symbol and now shorten our own pipe.
Now if we do this and save, you see it gets cut off
and if we count the characters,
this looks like 10 characters. So now our ShortenPipe is in use,
it's not super pretty though. So we can improve our pipe and this is now something which is not really
related to pipes,
I'm simply adding a new string to my shortened string and this will simply be three dots and maybe a
blank space in front of it.
So now the shortening should look a bit prettier because now we cut it off,
though we always see the three strings,
so another improvement might be to first check if the character,
excuse me, if the string is really longer than 10 characters.
So here I first check if value length is greater than 10 characters because only if it is greater,
only in this case
I want to shorten it,
otherwise I will return the unchanged value.
So now in this case, you see if this reloads, it shortens all these names
but if we were to remove the server here and the blank space on the first server, so that it's just
for production, therefore it just has 10 characters,
you see now we don't have the three dots here because we improved our pipe but this is all pure Javascript
tuning, not really related to pipes,
the important part about pipes is that you
a)
add this pipe decorator,
b) make sure you have the transform method possibly enforced by adding the PipeTransform interface which
is a good idea, which is a good practice and c) by adding your pipe to the declarations array in your
app module.
And with that, you're good to use your own pipe and to create your own pipes and adjust them to your needs.
Now let's improve this pipe in the next lecture.